14.0 italy chpr (#3024)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/fiscal_localizations/localizations/italy.rst

Italy
=====

Configuration
=============
The first necessary step to carry out accounting transactions in Italy is the
:guilabel:`Italy - Accounting`. Once this module is installed you can start managing your accounting
in Odoo. For all B2B transactions, Italy requires electronic invoicing, the use of specific formats and the
transmission of invoices on **SDI** platform.

Odoo modules allow to:

- Generate electronic invoices in **FatturaPA's** format.
- Send and receive electronic invoicing through SDIcoop.

> - Use the **Codice Destinatario** `K95IV18`.

Reviewer: Well, this third is just something that you have to do, not something that "Odoo allows you to".
I would just remove the third bullet point and use the other two.

   dell’indirizzo telematico dove ricevere tutte le fatture elettroniche`, insert Odoo's Codice
   Destinatario (`K95IV18`), then confirm.

Give Odoo permission to process files
-------------------------------------

Since the files are transmitted through Odoo's server before being sent to SDICoop or received by
your database, you need to authorize Odoo to process your files from your database.

To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Electronic
Document Invoicing`. In the :guilabel:`Electronic Document Invoicing`, you can see three different
modes:
- Demo
- Test (experimental)
- Official (production)

Choosing the right mode
-----------------------
- :guilabel:`Demo` mode in Odoo is a simulation environment where all invoices created are **not**
  automatically sent to the government. In such mode, the invoices need to be manually downloaded
  as xml files and you then have to upload them on the Agenzia dell'Entrate website.
- :guilabel:`Test` mode sends invoices to a non-production service.
- :guilabel:`Official` is a production mode that sends your invoices directly to the Agenzia
  dell'Entrate.

.. warning::

>    Once in :guilabel:`Official` mode it is not possible to get back to the :guilabel:`Test` and

Reviewer: Care: you also cannot go from test to official!
We only suggest the "test" mode only for test databases. 

A client creates a test database just to test out the feature, then on its production database he goes straight from demo to production.

Furthermore, the "test" mode only enables you to send invoices to a selected few "fake" destination "CodiceDestinatario": 
```
0803HR0
N8MIMM9
X9XX79Z
```

That's it as of now. In the future we may implement change from test to official.

- Generate electronic invoices in **FatturaPA's** format.
- Send and receive electronic invoicing through SDIcoop.

.. warning::
   Once this module is installed, it's no longer possible to send invoices via :ref:`PEC mails
   <italy/pec>`.

Once this module is installed, there are a few more necessary configurations. For all B2B
transactions, Italy requires electronic invoicing with the use of specific formats and the
transmission of invoices on **SDI** platform.

Company information
-------------------

The company information is the also an important configuration to ensure the proper set up of your
Accounting database. To add the information, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings -->
General Settings --> Update info`. In this menu, make sure to have at least the following:

- the company address
- :guilabel:`GSTIN` code
- :guilabel:`Codice Fiscale`
- :guilabel:`Tax System`
- :guilabel:`PEC address email`

PEC
---
The PEC email is a specific type of certified email providing a legal equivalent to the traditional
registered mail. The PEC email of the main company must be the same as the one registered by the
Agenzia delle Entrate authorities.

SDICoop
-------

> To receive invoices and notifications from third parties, you need to inform the FatturaPA service

Reviewer: I'd change the formulation a bit, I give you some suggestion you're free to use as a guidance
I would name the section "E-invoicing", briefly describe what the SdI (Exchange System) is, and then how to subscribe to it so that Odoo can receive the invoices from it (the section you already wrote below here).
The SdI is the public technical system that allows the sending and receiving of invoices between businesses, that allows the e-invoices in XML to be validated and sent to the other party, and that this process is mandatory by law. (Very) Basic reference in ENG here: https://www.fatturapa.gov.it/en/lafatturapa/

field. The xml file is accessible in the chatter of the invoice.

.. image:: italy/processing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Electronic invoicing status (waiting for confirmation)

Vendor bills
============

As for invoices, when creating a vendor bill, the :guilabel:`Fattura PA` option is automatically
activated in the Vendor bill Journals' advanced settings.
When inserting taxes in a vendor bill, you have the possibility to choose **reverse charge** taxes,
these are automatically activated in the Italian fiscal position. By going to
:menuselection:`Configuration --> Taxes`, you will see that the 10% & 22% services and goods taxes
are activated and have the correct tax grids; these are set up automatically to ensure the correct
booking of accounting entries and display of the tax report.
Once the bill is confirmed, a banner appears, and the bill can be sent to the EDI service.

Integration documents
=====================

If one of the two parties of the reverse charge is not Italian, it is required to send additional
integration documents to the SDI. Depending on the case, these documents, **Dati Documento** can be

> type TD 16, TD 17, TD 18 and others.

Author: @lordkrandel Put this over here, but I'm not sure if we should integrate it with other sections, also any specifications about Odoo I should mention here?
Lastly, do you have a nice link for TD.. that I can put here? (if it can be useful)

Reviewer: For the *Tax* integrations, I've written this spec about External Reverse Charge, that you can use.
You should be able to see the content - if not, just tell me and I will export it in a Google doc or sth
https://www.odoo.com/web#id=2823646&model=project.task

Reviewer: I will integrate this in the next few hours with how to configure the invoice in Odoo to handle those cases, either here or (better) on the task itself. Will let you know when there's more.

Italy
=====

Configuration
=============
The first necessary module to start booking accounting transactions on an Italian localization is
:guilabel:`Italy - Accounting` module. Once installed it allows to:

- Generate electronic invoices in **FatturaPA's** format.
- Send and receive electronic invoicing through SDIcoop.

.. warning::

>    Once this module is installed, it's no longer possible to send invoices via :ref:`PEC mails

Reviewer 2: To be determined since the italian page is to be removed, and is the only place where PEC is documented

   <italy/pec>`.

Company information
-------------------

The company information is also an important configuration to ensure the proper set up of your
Accounting database. To add the information, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings -->
General Settings --> Update info`. In this menu, make sure to have at least the following:

- the company address
- :guilabel:`GSTIN` code
- :guilabel:`Codice Fiscale`
- :guilabel:`Tax System`
- :guilabel:`PEC address email`

PEC
---
The PEC email is a specific type of certified email providing a legal equivalent to the traditional
registered mail. The PEC email of the main company must be the same as the one registered by the
Agenzia delle Entrate authorities.

E-Invoicing
-----------

**SdI** is the public technical system that allows sending and receiving invoices. It enables the

> transmission and receipt of electronic billing in XML as well as validating and sending it from

Reviewer 2: FYI, it's either XML or .xml. Both are correct, just have be consistent throughout the doc

In order to receive invoices and notifications, you need to inform the FatturaPA service that Odoo
is the allowed party to process files for you. To do so, you must set up Odoo's
**Codice Destinatario** on the FatturaPA portal.

#. Go to https://ivaservizi.agenziaentrate.gov.it/portale/ and authenticate.
#. Go to section :menuselection:`Fatture e Corrispettivi`.
#. Set the user as Legal Party for the VAT number you wish to configure the electronic address.
#. In :menuselection:`Servizi Disponibili --> Fatturazione Elettronica --> Registrazione
   dell’indirizzo telematico dove ricevere tutte le fatture elettroniche`, insert Odoo's Codice
   Destinatario (`K95IV18`), then confirm.

Give Odoo permission to process files
-------------------------------------

Since the files are transmitted through Odoo's server before being sent to SDICoop or received by
your database, you need to authorize Odoo to process your files from your database.

To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Electronic
Document Invoicing`. In the :guilabel:`Electronic Document Invoicing`, you can see three different
modes:

- Demo
- Test (experimental)

> - Official (production)

Reviewer 2: ![italy-EDI](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104567387/213665443-314e9502-05e8-40c8-b086-216c1d381108.png)

I can confirm it's the correct path

- :guilabel:`Test` mode sends invoices to a non-production service. THerefore a communication is
  established between Odoo and the test server of the Public Administration and only send invoices
  to a selected few `fake` destinations.
- :guilabel:`Official` is a production mode that sends your invoices directly to the Agenzia
  dell'Entrate.

.. warning::
   The choice of the mode is **not reversible**. Once in :guilabel:`Official` mode it is not
   possible to get back to the :guilabel:`Test` and :guilabel:`Demo`. Equally is not possible to go
   from :guilabel:`Test` to :guilabel:`Official`.

After having selected the right mode, you need to accept the terms and conditions right below the
mode selection. Once you have :guilabel:`Saved` the mode you want, you can start recording your
Accounting transactions in Odoo.

Issue invoices
==============

The **FatturaPA** feature is automatically active, you can check it in
:menuselection:`Configuration --> Journals --> Customer Invoices -->  Advanced Settings`.
You can create a new invoice by going to :menuselection:`Accounting dashboard --> New invoice`, once
confirmed the e-invoice will be generated and sent.

.. warning::

>    The e-invoice is only sent to the government if you are in :guilabel:`Official` mode.

Reviewer 2: This is explained further up in the Electronic Document Invoicing section

You can check the current status of your customer invoice under the :guilabel:`Electronic invoicing`
field. The xml file is accessible in the chatter of the invoice.

.. image:: italy/processing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Electronic invoicing status (waiting for confirmation)

Vendor bills
============

As for invoices, when creating a vendor bill, the :guilabel:`FatturaPA` option is automatically
activated in the Vendor bill Journals' advanced settings.
When inserting taxes in a vendor bill, you have the possibility to choose **Reverse Charge** taxes,
these are automatically activated in the Italian fiscal position. By going to
:menuselection:`Configuration --> Taxes`, you will see that the 10% and 22% services and goods taxes
are activated and have the correct tax grids; these are set up automatically to ensure the correct
booking of accounting entries and display of the tax report.

> Once the bill is confirmed, a banner appears, and the bill can be sent to the EDI service.

Reviewer 3: The FatturaPA option is automatically activated when the :guilabel:`Italy - Accounting` module is installed. You can check it by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals --> Vendor Bills --> Advanced Settings`. 

When inserting taxes in a vendor bill, you can choose :guilabel:`Reverse Charge` taxes; these are automatically activated in the Italian fiscal position. 

By going to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Taxes`, you see that the 10% and 22% services and goods taxes are activated and have the correct tax grids; these are set up automatically to ensure the correct booking of accounting entries and display of the tax report. 

Once the bill is confirmed, a banner appears, and the bill is sent in electronic format.
```

Reviewer 3: I didn't see the Reverse Charge... Maybe it would be good to clarify what it is?

Taxes
=====

Specific configurations are required for **Reverse Charge** type of taxes. In such case, the seller

> does not charge the client for VAT but the buyer is paying for it. There are two main cases,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
does not charge the client for VAT, but the buyer is paying for it. There are two main cases,
```

Internal and External Reverse Charge.

> External Reverse Charge

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
External reverse charge
```

-----------------------

Vendors of Italian companies selling and buying goods from other EU countries or services from
non-EU countries are responsible for collecting VAT from the buyer and giving it back to the State.
When the buyer is from another State, he is the responsible for collecting the right VAT amount and
sending it to the Tax Agency.

Invoices
--------

> 

Reviewer 3: Where are we? Where to perform the below steps? Maybe a screenshot would be helpful here?

> - the seller will put a 0% tax on the invoice line, specifying on the :guilabel:`Natura`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- the seller put a 0% tax on the invoice line, specifying on the :guilabel:`Natura`
```

- :guilabel:`SdI address` must be filled in both for EU or non-EU.
- :guilabel:`Country Id` needs to contain the country of the foreign seller, in the two-letter ISO
   code.
- :guilabel:`CAP` must be filled with "00000".
- :guilabel:`Partita Iva`: must contain VAT number for **EU businesses** and `0099999999999` for
  **non-EU businesses**, and `0000000` for **individuals** without a VAT number.
- :guilabel:`Fiscal Code` for foreign entites, without an actual **Codice Fiscale**, is any
   recognizable identifier is valid.

Vendor bills:
-------------

The Italian buyer sends the SdI the information of the invoice received, setting the seller as
`Cedente/Prestatore` and the buyer as the `Cessionario/Committente` and filling out the missing tax
information that he needs to pay to the State.

.. note::
   The Natura code needs to be specified only if the line is tax-exempt, in the case of non-taxable
   goods.

Self invoices or VAT invoice integrations must be issued and sent to the Tax Agency.
Three types of configurations are technically identified by a code called `Tipo Documento`:

#. **TD17** - Buying services from EU and non-EU

>    The foreign seller sends an invoice for a service with the price but without taxes, as it will
>    not be taxable in Italy, and the VAT is paid from the buyer in Italy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The foreign seller sends an invoice for a service with the price but without taxes, as it is
   not taxable in Italy, and the VAT is paid from the buyer in Italy.
```

Reviewer 3: we try to write in present as much as possible

   * - Italy - E-invoicing (SdiCoop)
     - `l10n_it_edi_sdicoop`
     - Web service e-Invoice implementation
   * - Italy - Accounting Reports
     - `l10n_it_reports`
     - Country-specific reports
   * - Italy - Transport Document (DDT)
     - `l10n_it_stock_ddt`
     - Transport Document (DDT)

.. warning::
   Once the `l10_it_edi_sdicoop` module installed, it is no longer possible to send invoices via
   :ref:`PEC mails <italy/pec>`.

.. image:: italy/italy-modules.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Italian localization modules

Company information
-------------------

Configuring the company's information ensures the proper set up of your Accounting database. To add
information, go to :menuselection:`(Accounting --> Configuration -->) Settings --> General Settings`
and in the :guilabel:`Companies` section, click :guilabel:`Update info`. From here, fill in the
fields:

- :guilabel:`Address`: the address of the company;
- :guilabel:`VAT`: VAT of the company;
- :guilabel:`Codice Fiscale`: the fiscal code of the company;
- :guilabel:`Tax System`: the tax system under which the company falls;
- :guilabel:`PEC address email`: the certified email address of the company.

> .. image:: italy/italy-company.png

Reviewer: Ah, pardon, looking at this image, I notice not all the address fields are filled out.

   :align: center
   :alt: Company information to provide

PEC mail
--------
The :doc:`PEC email <italy_IT>` is a specific type of **certified** email providing a legal
equivalent to the traditional registered mail. The **PEC email** of the main company must be the
same as the one registered by the **Agenzia delle Entrate** authorities.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`PEC email <italy_IT>`

e-Invoicing
-----------

The :abbr:`SdI (Sistema di Interscambio)` is the electronic invoicing system used in Italy. It
enables transmission and reception of electronic billing in XML format, as well as validation and

> sending of XML e-Invoices from businesses to third parties.

Reviewer 2: Is the "ERP softwares like Odoo" part really necessary ? We don't like doing much marketing about Odoo in our documentation

> sending of XML e-Invoices from businesses to third parties.

Reviewer: No no, not necessary, rephrase at your will.

#. Set the user as Legal Party for the VAT number you wish to configure the electronic address;
#. In :menuselection:`Servizi Disponibili --> Fatturazione Elettronica --> Registrazione
   dell’indirizzo telematico dove ricevere tutte le fatture elettroniche`, insert Odoo's
   :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario` `K95IV18`, and confirm.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../receivables/customer_invoices/electronic_invoicing`

File processing authorization (Odoo)
------------------------------------

Since the files are transmitted through Odoo's server before being sent to SDICoop or received by
your database, you need to authorize Odoo to process your files from your database. To do so, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Electronic Document Invoicing`.

There are **three** modes available:

- :guilabel:`Demo` mode simulates an environment in which invoices are sent to the government. In
  this mode, invoices need to be *manually* downloaded as XML files and uploaded to the **Agenzia
  delle Entrate**'s website;
- :guilabel:`Test (experimental)` mode sends invoices to a non-production (i.e., test) service.

>   Invoices are sent from Odoo to selected *fake* destinations of the **Pubblica Amministrazione**'s

Reviewer 2: @lordkrandel Is the Pubblica Amministrazione the same as the Agenzia delle Entrate ?

  test servers. Saving this change directs all companies on the database to use this
  configuration;
- :guilabel:`Official` is a production mode that sends your invoices directly to the **Agenzia delle
  Entrate**.

Once a mode selected, you need to accept the **terms and conditions** by ticking :guilabel:`Allow
Odoo to process invoices`, and then :guilabel:`Save`. You can now record your transactions in Odoo
Accounting.

.. warning::
   Selecting either :guilabel:`Test (experimental)` or :guilabel:`Official` is **irreversible**.
   Once in :guilabel:`Official` mode, it is not possible to select :guilabel:`Test (experimental)`
   or :guilabel:`Demo`, and same for :guilabel:`Test (experimental)`. We recommend creating a
   separate database for testing purposes only.

.. note::
   :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario` of fake destinations: `0803HR0` - `N8MIMM9` - `X9XX79Z`.

.. image:: italy/italy-edi.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Italy's electronic document invoicing options

Taxes
=====

> Specific configurations are required for the **reverse charge** type of taxes. In case of a

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what new information (directly related to the loca) this suggestion would bring. The actual PR states that specific configurations (found underneath it) are required for reverse charge taxes. Explaining how it is integrated or how it works within Odoo is too general, in my opinion

> Specific configurations are required for the **reverse charge** type of taxes. In case of a

Reviewer: I don't think so, because taxes need to be configured also for cases like San Marino, and as soon as I finish the PR I'm working on (end of this week probably), for Enasarco taxes, for Withholding taxes, for Pension fund contribution taxes... ( next PR 😄 ) Of course you can omit the part "so that it can be easily used and maintained", now that I read it again it just sounds weird here.

Anyway it's somehow important that the user knows that we're implementing most features for e-Invoices out of taxes configurations, so that if they're not configured as stated below, they won't tell the Tax Agency the right things.

**reverse charge** tax, the seller does *not* charge the customer for the VAT but instead the
customer pays the VAT *themselves* to their government. There are **two** main types of **reverse
charges**: :ref:`external <italy/external-reverse>` and :ref:`internal <italy/internal-reverse>`
reverse charge.

.. _italy/external-reverse:

External reverse charge
-----------------------

Invoices
~~~~~~~~

To use an **external reverse** charge tax on an invoice, first go to :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configuration --> Taxes` and select a `O%` tax of type :guilabel:`Sales` or :guilabel:`Purchases`,
according to your needs. Once within the tax menu, click :guilabel:`Edit`, and at the bottom of the
menu, tick :guilabel:`Has exoneration of tax (Italy)`, select the :guilabel:`Exoneration` that
corresponds to your transaction, and enter the corresponding :guilabel:`Law Reference`. When done,

> click :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer 2: I think it's more clear and more precise as you put it. I modified it a little.

.. note::
   If you need to use a different :guilabel:`Exonerations` nature, click :menuselection:`Action -->
   Duplicate` within the tax menu to create a copy of an existing similar tax. Then, select another
   :guilabel:`Exoneration`, and :guilabel:`Save`. Repeat this process as many times as you need
   different :guilabel:`Exoneration` nature taxes.

.. tip::
   **Rename** your taxes in the :guilabel:`Name` field according to their :guilabel:`Exoneration` to
   differentiate them easily.

> .. image:: italy/italy-tax.png

Reviewer 2: Changed it to a new exoneration

   :align: center
   :alt: External reverse charge settings

On your invoice, select the corresponding tax you need in the :guilabel:`Taxes` field. You can find

> and edit additional info by opening the **XML** file of the issued invoice:

Reviewer 2: Changed and added a note

- :guilabel:`SdI address (Codice Destinatario)`: must be filled for both **EU** or
  **non-EU**;
- :guilabel:`Country Id`: must contain the country of the foreign seller in the two-letter ISO
  (Alpha-2) code (ex., `IT` for 'Italy');
- :guilabel:`CAP`: must be filled with `00000`;
- :guilabel:`Partita Iva` (**VAT number**): must contain the **VAT** number for **EU businesses**

>   and `OO99999999999` (double 'O' letter, not 'zero') for **non-EU businesses**. In case of private

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and `OO99999999999` (double 'O' letter, not 'zero') for **non-EU businesses**. In case of private
```
Is it two 'O's or two '0's for EU businesses ? You put two 'O's in your task I believe

  customers without **VAT** number, use `0000000`;
- :guilabel:`Fiscal Code`: for foreign entities without an actual **Codice Fiscale**, any
  recognizable identifier is valid.

Vendor bills
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Italian companies buying goods or services from EU countries or non-EU countries must send the
> information contained within the bill received to the **Agenzia delle Entrate**. Set the seller as
> :guilabel:`Cedente/Prestatore`, the buyer as :guilabel:`Cessionario/Committente`, and fill out the
> tax information to be paid to the **Agenzia delle Entrate**.
> 
> The Italian buyer sends the **tax agency** via the :abbr:`SdI (Systema di Interscambio)` the
> information of the invoice received, setting the seller as :guilabel:`Cedente/Prestatore`, the buyer
> as the :guilabel:`Cessionario/Committente`, and filling out the missing tax information that must be
> paid to the **Agenzia delle Entrate**. Self-billing invoices or VAT invoice integrations must be
> issued and sent to the tax agency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Italian companies buying goods or services from EU countries or non-EU countries must send the
information contained within the bill received to the **Agenzia delle Entrate**. Set the seller as
:guilabel:`Cedente/Prestatore`, the buyer as :guilabel:`Cessionario/Committente`, and fill out the
tax information to be paid to the **Agenzia delle Entrate**.

The Italian buyer sends the **tax agency** via the :abbr:`SdI (Systema di Interscambio)` the
information of the invoice received, setting the seller as :guilabel:`Cedente/Prestatore`, the buyer
as the :guilabel:`Cessionario/Committente`, and filling out the missing tax information that must be
paid to the **Agenzia delle Entrate**. Self-billing invoices or VAT invoice integrations must be
issued and sent to the tax agency.
```
This whole paragraph is a bit unclear, I rewrote it but it's not really good

**Three** types of configurations are technically identified by a code called :guilabel:`Tipo
Documento` (document type):

#. `TD17` - Buying **services** from **EU** and **non-EU** countries:

   The foreign *seller* invoices a service with a **VAT-excluded** price, as it is not taxable in
   Italy. The VAT is paid by the *buyer* in Italy;

   - Within EU: the *buyer* records the invoice received in their VAT return due in Italy;
   - Non-EU: the *buyer* sends themselves an invoice (i.e., **self-billing**).

> 

Reviewer: Some visual inconsistency with the spacing

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1665365/214318516-739cc124-71fe-434b-b5b8-070d00f94b69.png)

Reviewer 2: I changed the format to make it more digestible, this one was just a long list with lots of information. Let me know what you think.

     Odoo exports a transaction as `TD17` if the following conditions are met:

   - Is a vendor bill;

>    - At least one tax on the invoice lines targets the tax grids `VJ`;

Reviewer: As noted below, detail that it's `VJ` because it's the part of the tax report that is reverse charge related

   - All invoice lines either have :guilabel:`Services` as **products**, or a tax with the
     :guilabel:`Services` as **tax scope**.

#. `TD18` - Buying **goods** from **EU**:

   Invoices issued within the EU follow a **standard format**, therefore only an integration of the
   existing invoice is required.

   Odoo exports a transaction as `TD18` if the following conditions are met:

   - Is a vendor bill;

>    - At least one tax on the invoice lines targets the tax grids `VJ`;

Reviewer: As noted below.

  - All invoice lines either have :guilabel:`Consumable` products, or a tax with
    :guilabel:`Goods` as tax scope.

.. _italy/internal-reverse:

Internal reverse charge
-----------------------

.. important::
   Odoo currently does not support **internal reverse** charge processes.

In some cases, vendor bills have the VAT duty **reverse charged** on the *buyer* for **national
purchases** too (e.g., cleaning company invoices, construction sub-contractor invoices, scrap
selling, tablets and mobile phones, etc.). For these operations, the *seller* or *provider* issues
an electronic invoice with :guilabel:`Tipo Documento` code `TD01`, `TD02` for :ref:`down payments
<italy/down-payments>`, or `TD04` for credit notes, with the **tax-exemption code** ranging from
`N6.1` to `N6.9`.

The *buyer* is required to issue themselves an invoice (i.e., **self-billing**) for the VAT due with
:guilabel:`Tipo Documento` code `TD16`, which is sent through the :abbr:`SdI (Systema di
Interscambio)` with the buyer *themselves* as **recipient** (using their own :guilabel:`Codice
Destinatario`). That way, they can deduct their VAT. The **self-billed** invoice must be issued and

> recorded in the VAT sales register within **15 days** from receipt.

Reviewer 2: Sure, we can think about this later

Customer invoices
=================

The :guilabel:`Fattura PA` feature is enabled by default, and can be found under
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals --> Customer Invoices (journal) -->
Advanced Settings (tab) --> Electronic Data Interchange`. Once :doc:`created and confirmed
<../../getting_started/process_overview/customer_invoice>`, the e-Invoice is generated and sent. You
can check the current status of an invoice by the :guilabel:`Electronic invoicing` field *(cf.
screenshot below)*. The XML file can be found in the **chatter** of the invoice.

.. warning::
   e-Invoices are only sent to the government if the :abbr:`EDI (Electronic Document Invoicing)` is
   set to :guilabel:`Official` mode.

.. image:: italy/italy-processing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Electronic invoicing status (waiting for confirmation)

.. _italy/down-payments:

Down payments
-------------

> **Down payments** invoices are imported/exported with a different :guilabel:`Typo Documento` code

Reviewer: There's a typo, it is `Tipo Documento` not `Typo Documento`. 
Which is kinda recursive. 🤣

(`TD02`) than regular invoices. The import creates a regular vendor bill.

Odoo exports moves as `TD02` if the following conditions are met:

- is an invoice;
- All invoice lines are related to **sales order lines** that have the flag `is_downpayment` set as
  `True`.

Simplified invoices and credit notes
------------------------------------

> A simplified invoice can be used to certify **domestic transactions** under **400 EUR** (VAT
> included). Its status is the same as a regular invoice, but with fewer information requirements.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A simplified invoice can be used to certify **domestic transactions** under **400 EUR** (VAT
included). Its status is the same as a regular invoice, but with fewer information requirements.

```
The sumup article you referenced mentions both domestic and foreign currencies

Reviewer: It mentions it, but it says that it's not possible.
"You can use a simplified invoice when it's under 400 euroes, and it's NOT an invoice inside the EU (intracomunitaria) (VAT exempt operations excluded) or for goods and services subjected to Reverse Charge" 

There is a mention about "VAT exempt operations excluded" but it's really a corner case, that I know no specifications about this. I would simplify and say that it's only available for domestic. That's also how the code works. Should we have detailed feedback about any non-domestic case we will update the docs.

For a **simplified** invoice to be established, it must include:

- :guilabel:`Customer Invoice` reference: **unique** numbering sequence with **no gaps**;
- :guilabel:`Invoice Date`: issue **date** of the invoice;
- :guilabel:`Company Info`: the **seller**'s full credentials (VAT/TIN number, name, full address)
  under :menuselection:`General Settings --> Companies (section)`;
- :guilabel:`VAT`: the **buyer**'s VAT/TIN number (on their profile card);
- :guilabel:`Total`: the total **amount** (VAT included) of the invoice.

In the :abbr:`EDI (Electronic Data Interchange)`, Odoo exports invoices as simplified if:

- It is a **domestic** transaction (i.e., the partner is from Italy);
- The buyer's data is **insufficient** for a regular invoice;
- The **required fields** for a regular invoice (address, ZIP code, city, country) are provided;
- The total amount VAT included is **less** than **400 EUR**.

Invoices can have different :guilabel:`Tipo Documento`, depending on the move type:

- `TD07`: Simplified invoice;
- `TD08`: Simplified credit note.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
No debit note in V14, right ? Couldn't find any

Reviewer: There is, but it's very discouraged flow. 
We actually currently import TD09 kind-ed documents as normal invoices in the code in v14.
There also is the `account_debit_note` module in v14 (which I don't know much about).

the provision of services. A **deferred invoice** has to be issued at the latest within the **15th
day** of the month following the delivery covered by the document.

It usually is a **summary invoice** containing a list of multiple sales of goods or services,
carried out in the month. The business is allowed to **group** the sales into **one invoice**,
generally issued at the **end of the month** for accounting purposes. Deferred invoices are default
for **wholesaler** having recurrent clients.

If the goods are transported by a **carrier**, every delivery has an associated **Documento di
Transporto (DDT)**, or **Transport Document**. The deferred invoice **must** indicate the details of
all the **DDTs** information for better tracing.

.. note::
   e-Invoicing of deferred invoices requires the `l10n_it_stock_ddt` :ref:`module <italy/modules>`.
   In this case, a dedicated :guilabel:`Tipo Documento` `TD24` is used in the e-Invoice.

Odoo exports moves as `TD24` if the following conditions are met:

- Is an invoice;
- Is associated to deliveries whose **DDTs** have a **different** date than the issuance date of the
  invoice.

Vendor bills
============

> When creating a **vendor bill**, the :guilabel:`FatturaPA` feature is enabled by default and

Reviewer: As noted above for the "FatturaPA" name and being enabled by default.

automatically activated under :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals --> Vendor
Bills (journal) --> Advanced Settings (tab) --> Electronic Data Interchange`.

When inserting taxes in a vendor bill, you have the possibility to choose **Reverse Charge** taxes,
these are automatically activated in the Italian fiscal position. By going to
:menuselection:`Configuration --> Taxes`, you will see that the 10% and 22% services and goods taxes
are activated and have the correct tax grids; these are set up automatically to ensure the correct
booking of accounting entries and display of the tax report.

> Once the bill is confirmed, a banner appears, and the bill can be sent to the EDI service.

Reviewer: "A banner appears" is very generic.
It's the same banner as the other EDI, I don't know if you have information about them to be lined. Otherwise, just skip it.

San Marino
==========

Invoices
--------

San Marino and Italy have special agreements on e-Invoicing operations. As such, **invoices** follow
the regular **reverse charge** rules. Additional requirements are not enforced by Odoo, however, the
user is requested by the **State** to:

- Select a tax with the option :guilabel:`Has exoneration of tax (Italy)` ticked, and the
  :guilabel:`Exoneration` set to `N3.3`;

> - Use the generic :abbr:`SdI (Systema di Interscambio)` :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario` `2R4GT08`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the generic :abbr:`SdI (Sistema di Interscambio)` :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario` `2R4GT08`.
```

  The invoice is then routed by a dedicated office in San Marino to the correct business.

Bills
-----

When a **paper bill** is received from San Marino, any Italian company **must** submit that invoice
to the **Agenzia delle Estrate** by indicating the e-Invoice's :guilabel:`Typo Documento` field with
the special value `TD28`.

Odoo exports a move as `TD28` if the following conditions are met:

- Is a vendor bill;

> - At least one tax on the invoice lines targets the tax grids `VJ`;

Reviewer: Tax grids `VJ` again. Maybe we can have a little note about it, and link it on the occurrences? What's the default practice for repetitive info?

Reviewer 2: I added a H3 heading and section on tax grids, that way the info is centralized much more easily

localization, and is enabled by default when installed. When the **file processing authorization**
has been set, all **invoices** and **bills** are automatically sent for journals with
:guilabel:`Electronic invoicing` enabled (:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals
--> (Select a journal) --> Advanced Settings --> Electronic Data Interchange)`.

You can check the current status of an invoice by the :guilabel:`Electronic invoicing` field *(cf.
screenshot below)*. The XML file can be found in the **chatter** of the invoice.

.. image:: italy/italy-test.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Electronic invoicing status (waiting for confirmation)

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../receivables/customer_invoices/electronic_invoicing`

File processing authorization (Odoo)
------------------------------------

Since the files are transmitted through Odoo's server before being sent to the :abbr:`SdI (Sistema
di Interscambio)` or received by your database, you need to authorize Odoo to process your files
from your database. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings -->
Electronic Document Invoicing`.

There are **three** modes available:

> - :guilabel:`Demo` mode simulates an environment in which invoices are sent to the government. In
>   this mode, invoices need to be *manually* downloaded as XML files and uploaded to the **Agenzia
>   delle Entrate**'s website;

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Demo` mode simulates an environment in which invoices are sent to the government. You
  could use this mode to *manually* download the generated XML files and upload to the **Agenzia
  delle Entrate**'s website, but it is mainly meant for demonstration/testing purposes. 
```
Still, we do not want to give people bad ideas...

Reviewer: It's the only way to handle B2G at the moment, so I don't consider it a bad idea.

Entrate** portal.

#. Go to https://ivaservizi.agenziaentrate.gov.it/portale/ and authenticate;
#. Go to section :menuselection:`Fatture e Corrispettivi`;
#. Set the user as Legal Party for the VAT number you wish to configure the electronic address;
#. In :menuselection:`Servizi Disponibili --> Fatturazione Elettronica --> Registrazione
   dell’indirizzo telematico dove ricevere tutte le fatture elettroniche`, insert Odoo's
   :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario` `K95IV18`, and confirm.

Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Odoo uses the **FatturaPA** :abbr:`EDI (Electronic Data Interchange)` format for the Italian
localization, and is enabled by default when installed. When the **file processing authorization**
has been set, all **invoices** and **bills** are automatically sent for journals with
:guilabel:`Electronic invoicing` enabled (:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals
--> (Select a journal) --> Advanced Settings --> Electronic Data Interchange)`.

You can check the current status of an invoice by the :guilabel:`Electronic invoicing` field *(cf.

> screenshot below)*. The XML file can be found in the **chatter** of the invoice.

Reviewer: Please highlight the `Electronic invoicing` field in the image, and correct that the XML can be found in the attachments. (I can't see it in the chatter)
You can use my example or fiddle with this runbot link from which I've taken the example.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1665365/215095819-2a7187f7-f0a0-4933-b92e-f57df824253a.png)

https://23239408-16-0-all.runbot178.odoo.com/web#id=186&cids=6&menu_id=632&action=557&model=account.move&view_type=form

.. image:: italy/italy-processing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Electronic invoicing status (waiting for confirmation)

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../receivables/customer_invoices/electronic_invoicing`

File processing authorization (Odoo)
------------------------------------

> Since the files are transmitted through Odoo's server before being sent to SDICoop or received by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the files are transmitted through Odoo's server before being sent to the SDI or received by
```
SDICoop is the name of the integration with the SdI system, but this information is unnecessary to the user. Just use `SdI` that you already described.

your database, you need to authorize Odoo to process your files from your database. To do so, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Electronic Document Invoicing`.

There are **three** modes available:

- :guilabel:`Demo` mode simulates an environment in which invoices are sent to the government. In
  this mode, invoices need to be *manually* downloaded as XML files and uploaded to the **Agenzia
  delle Entrate**'s website;

> - :guilabel:`Test (experimental)` mode sends invoices to a non-production (i.e., test) service.
>   Invoices are sent from Odoo to selected *fake* destinations of the **Pubblica Amministrazione**'s

Reviewer: Mhm, still not 100% clear. Let's remove it from here
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Test (experimental)` mode sends invoices to a non-production (i.e., test) service
made available by the Tax Agency. 
```
and then, see my comment on the note below.

  test servers. Saving this change directs all companies on the database to use this
  configuration;
- :guilabel:`Official` is a production mode that sends your invoices directly to the **Agenzia delle
  Entrate**.

Once a mode selected, you need to accept the **terms and conditions** by ticking :guilabel:`Allow
Odoo to process invoices`, and then :guilabel:`Save`. You can now record your transactions in Odoo
Accounting.

.. warning::
   Selecting either :guilabel:`Test (experimental)` or :guilabel:`Official` is **irreversible**.
   Once in :guilabel:`Official` mode, it is not possible to select :guilabel:`Test (experimental)`
   or :guilabel:`Demo`, and same for :guilabel:`Test (experimental)`. We recommend creating a
   separate database for testing purposes only.

> .. note::
>    When in :guilabel:`Test (Experimental)` mode, you *must* use the fake :guilabel:`Codice
>    Destinatario` intended for the **Agenzia Delle Entrate**'s test services: `0803HR0` - `N8MIMM9` -
>    `X9XX79Z`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   When in :guilabel:`Test (Experimental)` mode, all the invoices you send *must* have
   a partner that has one of the following fake :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario`
   given by the **Agenzia Delle Entrate**: `0803HR0` - `N8MIMM9` - `X9XX79Z`.
   Any real production :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario of your clients won't be
   recognized as valid by the test service.

```

   :guilabel:`Exoneration`, and :guilabel:`Save`. Repeat this process as many times as you need
   different kind of :guilabel:`Exoneration` taxes.

.. tip::
   **Rename** your taxes in the :guilabel:`Name` field according to their :guilabel:`Exoneration` to
   differentiate them easily.

On your invoice, select the corresponding tax you need in the :guilabel:`Taxes` field. You can find
the following **additional info** by opening the **XML** file of the issued invoice:

- :guilabel:`SdI address (Codice Destinatario)`: must be filled for both **EU** or
  **non-EU**;
- :guilabel:`Country Id`: must contain the country of the foreign seller in the two-letter ISO
  (Alpha-2) code (ex., `IT` for 'Italy');
- :guilabel:`CAP`: must be filled with `00000`;
- :guilabel:`Partita Iva` (**VAT number**): must contain the **VAT** number for **EU businesses**
  and `OO99999999999` (double 'O' **letter**, not 'zero') for **non-EU businesses**. In case of
  private customers without **VAT** number, use `0000000`;
- :guilabel:`Fiscal Code`: for foreign entities without an actual **Codice Fiscale**, any
  recognizable identifier is valid.

.. note::

>    Odoo does not support modified XML files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Odoo does not support sending user-modified XML files.
   All the technical information about the files is for you to understand
   what is being sent to the SdI and ensure that it meets your expectations. 
```

within the **XML** document for the vendor bill, the vendor's credentials show as
:guilabel:`Cedente/Prestatore`, and your company's credentials as
:guilabel:`Cessionario/Committente`.

.. note::
   Self-billing invoices or VAT invoice integrations must be issued and sent to the tax agency.

When inputting taxes in a vendor bill, it is possible to select **reverse charge** taxes. These are
automatically activated in the Italian fiscal position. By going to :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configuration --> Taxes`, the `10%` and `22%` :guilabel:`Goods` and :guilabel:`Services` tax scopes
are activated and preconfigured with the correct tax grids. These are set up automatically to ensure
the correct booking of accounting entries and display of the tax report.

For **vendor bills**, **three** types of configurations are technically identified by a code called
:guilabel:`Tipo Documento`:

- `TD17` - Buying services from **EU** and **non-EU** countries;
- `TD18` - Buying **goods** from **EU**;
- `TD19` - Buying **goods** from a **foreign** vendor, but the **goods** are already in **Italy**
  in a **VAT deposit**.

.. tabs::

>    .. tab:: `TD17`

Reviewer: There is some strange technical problem here that doesn't happen on other tabs in this very same page...
If you click the `TD17` tab, then `TD18` then `TD17` back again, the tab disappears 😅 
Can you please check whether it's your documentation in particular or a bug in the framework?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1665365/215099355-d9aa0b3f-4734-4e74-bd95-0c3402737d3f.png)

Reviewer 2: I guess it is a bug in the framework, since I tried writing things, having it empty, etc... No matter the content of the tab, it was broken. I'm not sure what other methods I can try to test this out.

.. _italy/grids:

'Reverse Charge' tax grids
--------------------------

The Italian localization has a specific **tax grid** section for **reverse charge** taxes. These
tax grids are identifiable by the :ref:`VJ <italy/grids>` tag, and can be found under
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Audit Reports: Tax Report`.

.. image:: italy/italy-grids.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Italian reverse charge tax grids

San Marino
==========

Invoices
--------

San Marino and Italy have special agreements on e-Invoicing operations. As such, **invoices** follow
the regular **reverse charge** rules. Additional requirements are not enforced by Odoo, however, the
user is requested by the **State** to:

- Select a tax with the option :guilabel:`Has exoneration of tax (Italy)` ticked, and the
  :guilabel:`Exoneration` set to `N3.3`;
- Use the generic :abbr:`SdI (Sistema di Interscambio)` :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario` `2R4GT08`.
  The invoice is then routed by a dedicated office in San Marino to the correct business.

Bills
-----

When a **paper bill** is received from San Marino, any Italian company **must** submit that invoice

> to the **Agenzia delle Estrate** by indicating the e-Invoice's :guilabel:`Typo Documento` field with
> the special value `TD28`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the **Agenzia delle Entrate** by indicating the e-Invoice's :guilabel:`Tipo Documento` field with
the special value `TD28`.
```

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: `TD28`

      Odoo exports a move as `TD28` if the following conditions are met:

      - Is a vendor bill;
      - At least one tax on the invoice lines targets the tax grids :ref:`VJ <italy/grids>`;
      - The **country** of the partner is **San Marino**.

Pubblica amministrazione (B2G)
==============================

Digital qualified signature
---------------------------

.. note::

>    Odoo does not support the use of **digital qualified signature** for now.

Reviewer: **Warning** This is important.

We don't support the WHOLE Public Administration flow. Not even sending simple XMLs to them, we block it. 
The problem is not just with the Qualified Signature. Also CIG and CUP etc. are not supported, or anything else that might be needed. 
The user may think: "If it's just the signature, I'll provide it myself" but then we don't handle all the rest of the flow and the information necessary, and he will make a mess.

To keep it simple, please put as a warning with the text like:
"We don't support e-invoicing to **any** partner belonging to the Italian Public Administration. All the information below is just a reference for future implementations."

It must be a warning on the entire Public Administration section and not a note. Like this:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1665365/215101408-b0f96e38-3578-446f-a501-350495920e52.png)

:guilabel:`Electronic invoicing` enabled (:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals
--> (Select a journal) --> Advanced Settings --> Electronic Data Interchange)`.

You can check the current status of an invoice by the :guilabel:`Electronic invoicing` field *(cf.
screenshot below)*. The XML file can be found in the **chatter** of the invoice.

.. image:: italy/italy-test.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Electronic invoicing status (waiting for confirmation)

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../receivables/customer_invoices/electronic_invoicing`

File processing authorization (Odoo)
------------------------------------

Since the files are transmitted through Odoo's server before being sent to the :abbr:`SdI (Sistema
di Interscambio)` or received by your database, you need to authorize Odoo to process your files
from your database. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings -->
Electronic Document Invoicing`.

There are **three** modes available:

- :guilabel:`Demo` mode simulates an environment in which invoices are sent to the government. In
  this mode, invoices need to be *manually* downloaded as XML files and uploaded to the **Agenzia

>   delle Entrate**'s website;

Reviewer: You say it's meant for giving demos, but it's actually the default with which every client starts. So it's not about demos, it's the default "off" condition. Customers are free to use it the way they want.

   :guilabel:`Exoneration`, and :guilabel:`Save`. Repeat this process as many times as you need
   different kind of :guilabel:`Exoneration` taxes.

.. tip::
   **Rename** your taxes in the :guilabel:`Name` field according to their :guilabel:`Exoneration` to
   differentiate them easily.

On your invoice, select the corresponding tax you need in the :guilabel:`Taxes` field. You can find
the following **additional info** by opening the **XML** file of the issued invoice:

- :guilabel:`SdI address (Codice Destinatario)`: must be filled for both **EU** or
  **non-EU**;
- :guilabel:`Country Id`: must contain the country of the foreign seller in the two-letter ISO
  (Alpha-2) code (ex., `IT` for 'Italy');
- :guilabel:`CAP`: must be filled with `00000`;
- :guilabel:`Partita Iva` (**VAT number**): must contain the **VAT** number for **EU businesses**
  and `OO99999999999` (double 'O' **letter**, not 'zero') for **non-EU businesses**. In case of
  private customers without **VAT** number, use `0000000`;
- :guilabel:`Fiscal Code`: for foreign entities without an actual **Codice Fiscale**, any
  recognizable identifier is valid.

> .. note::
>    Odoo does not support sending user-modified XML files.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Why?

Reviewer: We want to prevent to edit the XML and re-uploading it, right?
I know there are people who try to do that.

Reviewer 4: We can say you can not upload XML files back into Odoo for sending if we say they can upload immediately to the government.

     Odoo exports a transaction as `TD18` if the following conditions are met:

     - Is a vendor bill;
     - At least one tax on the invoice lines targets the tax grids :ref:`VJ <italy/grids>`;
     - All invoice lines either have :guilabel:`Consumable` as **products**, or a tax with the
       :guilabel:`Goods` as **tax scope**.

  .. tab:: `TD19`

     Buying **goods** from a **foreign** vendor, but the **goods** are already in **Italy** in a
     **VAT deposit**:

     - From EU: the *buyer* integrates the invoice received with the **VAT information** due in
       Italy (i.e., **vendor bill tax integration**);
     - Non-EU: the *buyer* sends an invoice to *themselves* (i.e., **self-billing**).

     Odoo exports a move as a `TD19` if the following conditions are met:

     - Is a vendor bill;
     - At least one tax on the invoice lines targets the tax grid :ref:`VJ3 <italy/grids>`;
     - All invoice lines either have :guilabel:`Consumable` products, or a tax with
       :guilabel:`Goods` as tax scope.

.. _italy/internal-reverse:

Internal reverse charge
-----------------------

.. warning::
   Odoo currently does not support **internal reverse charge** processes.

> In some cases, vendor bills have the VAT duty **reverse charged** on the *buyer* for **national

Reviewer 4: @chiaraprattico I don't know why we put an entire explanation of something we do not support...

Author: So I can erase all the paragraph from 371 to 381?

Reviewer 4: yep (and maybe in L 369 put internal (=domestic) reverse charge @lordkrandel

Reviewer: The idea is that probably we'll recycle the precious information for a more technical internal document, Chiara ;) Then, when we implement things, it will be restored here.

> In some cases, vendor bills have the VAT duty **reverse charged** on the *buyer* for **national
> purchases** too (e.g., cleaning company invoices, construction sub-contractor invoices, scrap
> selling, tablets and mobile phones, etc.). For these operations, the *seller* or *provider* issues
> an electronic invoice with :guilabel:`Tipo Documento` code `TD01`, `TD02` for down payments, or
> `TD04` for credit notes, with the **tax-exemption code** ranging from `N6.1` to `N6.9`.
> 
> The *buyer* is required to issue themselves an invoice (i.e., **self-billing**) for the VAT due with
> :guilabel:`Tipo Documento` code `TD16`, which is sent through the :abbr:`SdI (Systema di
> Interscambio)` with the buyer *themselves* as **recipient** (using their own :guilabel:`Codice
> Destinatario`). That way, they can deduct their VAT. The **self-billed** invoice must be issued and
> recorded in the VAT sales register within **15 days** from receipt.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Reverse charge within Italy
```
That should be clear enough.

Author: Not sure if you meant to delete the all paragraph, as Tom wrote it and it's pretty clear to me, I'll leave it.

San Marino
==========

Invoices
--------

San Marino and Italy have special agreements on e-Invoicing operations. As such, **invoices** follow
the regular **reverse charge** rules. Additional requirements are not enforced by Odoo, however, the
user is requested by the **State** to:

- Select a tax with the option :guilabel:`Has exoneration of tax (Italy)` ticked, and the
  :guilabel:`Exoneration` set to `N3.3`;
- Use the generic :abbr:`SdI (Sistema di Interscambio)` :guilabel:`Codice Destinatario` `2R4GT08`.
  The invoice is then routed by a dedicated office in San Marino to the correct business.

Bills
-----

When a **paper bill** is received from San Marino, any Italian company **must** submit that invoice
to the **Agenzia delle Entrate** by indicating the e-Invoice's :guilabel:`Tipo Documento` field with
the special value `TD28`.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: `TD28`

      Odoo exports a move as `TD28` if the following conditions are met:

      - Is a vendor bill;
      - At least one tax on the invoice lines targets the tax grids :ref:`VJ <italy/grids>`;
      - The **country** of the partner is **San Marino**.

Pubblica amministrazione (B2G)
==============================

> .. warning::
>    Odoo does **not** support e-Invoicing to **any** partner belonging to the **Pubblica
>    amministrazione dell'Italia**. All the information below is just a reference for *future*
>    implementations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. warning::
   Odoo does **not** send invoices directly to the government as they need to be signed.  If we see that the codice destinatario is 6 digits then it is not sent to the PA automatically, but  but you can download the XML, sign it with an external program and send it through the portal. 
```

Digital qualified signature
---------------------------

For invoices and bills intended to the **Pubblica Amministrazione (B2G)**, a **Digital Qualified
Signature** is required for all files sent through the :abbr:`SdI (Sistema di Interscambio)`. The
**XML** file must be certified using a certificate that is either:

- a **smart card**;
- a **USB token**;

> - a **Hardware Security Module (HSM)**.

Reviewer 4: This section could be about the external program above: 
external program (with smart card or usb token)

CIG, CUP, DatiOrdineAcquisto
----------------------------

To ensure the effective traceability of payments by public administrations, electronic invoices
issued to the public administrations must contain:

- The :abbr:`CIG (Codice Identificativo Gara)`, except in cases of exclusion from traceability
  obligations provided by law n. 136 of August 13, 2010;
- The :abbr:`CUP (Codice Unico di Progetto)`, in case of invoices related to public works.

If the **XML** file requires it, the **Agenzia Delle Entrate** can *only* proceed payments of
electronic invoices when the **XML** file contains a :abbr:`CIG (Codice Identificativo Gara)` and
:abbr:`CUP (Codice Unico di Progetto)`. For each electronic invoice, it is **necessary** to indicate
the :abbr:`CUU (Codice Univoco Ufficio)`, which represents the unique identifier code that allows
the :abbr:`SdI (Sistema di Interscambio)` to correctly deliver the electronic invoice to the

> recipient office.

Reviewer 4: CIG and CUP, DatiOrdine...  are things you can change in the XML when you use the external program (I think we can keep that explanation shorter)
